

FRED:


  JF   1.  The JF overview and initial topics, for 9/29, when I'm out of town.

  FB   2.  The FLB overview on 10/4. My Chapter 1, emphasizing the
             variety of diagrams.  Chapter 2, "one or two variables."

               Pictures of covariance, lines that fit well,
               correlations, lines that fit badly,
               initial examples -- Wright chickens, growth series.

  FB   3.  Chapter 3. Multiple regression

               Logic of MR as path analysis
               The three main special cases (ANCOVA, growth
                 innovations, LDISC).
               Morphometric examples: Bumpus, allometry in multiple groups

  JF   4.  Random walk, including [FB?] in more than one dimension.

  JF   X.  Introduction to likelihood for Gaussian structures.
             [I don't know where this goes, but it is obviously essential.]

  FB   5-6 [FB, JF both in absentia].  FB's Chapter 4 ("Transition to
             Multivariate Analysis")

               The information matrix for a bivariate Gaussian distribution
               Covariance matrix inversion and covariance matrix
                 eigenanalysis embody opposing approaches to measurement
               The Wishart distribution and its implications for PCA
               Critique of covariance matrices.  Are they real? (I.e.,
                 does the organism know about them?) Do their inverses
                 and/or their eigenanalyses have any biological meaning?

  FB   7.  Introduction to GMM: how to keep your place in an anatomy.
             (My Chapter 5.1.)

  FB   8.  Methods for landmarks three at a time. Tensors; uniform term.
             (My Chapter 5.2.)

  FB   9.  Procrustes approaches and the relative warps.  My chapters 5.3-5.4.

               Principal coordinates of shape; of size-shape.
               The critique of shape space as non-biological
               The critique of Procrustes distance as enforcing
                 unrealistic symmetries.

  FB  10.  Thin-plate splines; partial warps; semilandmarks.
             [My Chapter 5.5.]

  FB  11.  Pattern engines for shape coordinates, and their graphics
             [My Chapter 5.6.]

               group mean differences
               regressions
  JF           phylogenetic corrections, contrasts
               integration


          Thoughts? [No, that's not a 12th lecture on the syllabus.]



ME:

An introduction to quantitative genetics (1 session)
Brownian motion models and quantitative genetics (1-2)
Movement on fitness surfaces toward adaptive peaks (1-2)
Likelihoods for phylogenies under covarying Brownian Motion (1)
Comparative methods including contrasts methods (2 lectures)
Within-species phenotypic variation and sampling error (1)

Two more just suggested themselves:

1. Why Fred is being too negative about covariances and about principal
components
2. What is it that Fred is saying, anyway?

